last year three of my family members
were gruesomely murdered in a hate crime
it goes without saying that it's really
difficult for me to be here today but my
brother daya his wife you said and her
sister does n don't give me much of a
choice I'm hopeful that by the end of
this talk you will make a choice and
join me in standing up against hate it's
December 27th 2014 the morning of my
brother's wedding day he asks me to come
over and comb his hair in preparation
for his wedding photo shoot a 23 year
old 6 foot 3 basketball and particularly
Steph Curry fanatic an American kid in
dental school ready to take on the world
when dia and you said have their first
dance I see the love in his eyes her
reciprocated joy and my emotions begin
to overwhelm me I moved to the back of
the hall and burst into tears and the
second the song finishes playing he
beelines towards me buries me into his
arms and rocks me back and forth even in
that moment when everything was so
distracting he was attuned to me he cups
my face and says Suzanne I am Who I am
because of you
thank you for everything I love you it's
about a month later I'm back home in
North Carolina for a short visit and on
the last evening I run upstairs Sophia's
room eager to find out how he's feeling
being a newly married man with a big
boyish smile he says I'm so happy I love
her she's an amazing girl and she is at
just 21 she'd recently been accepted to
join dia at UNC dental school she shared
his love for basketball and not her
urging they started their honeymoon off
attending their favorite team of the NBA
the LA Lakers I mean check out that form
I'll never forget that moment sitting
there with him how free he was and his
happiness my little brother a basketball
obsessed kids had become and transformed
into an accomplished young man he was at
the top of his dental school class and
alongside us at under design was
involved in local and international
community service projects dedicated to
the homeless and refugees including a
dental relief trip they were planning
for Syrian refugees in Turkey resin at
just nineteen used her creativity as an
architectural engineering student to
serve those around her
making care packages for the local
homeless among other projects that is
who they were standing there that night
I take a deep breath and look at dia and
tell him I have never been more proud of
you than I am in this moment he pulls me
into his tall frame hugs me goodnight
and I leave the next morning without
waking him to go back to San Francisco
that is the last time I ever hugged him
ten days later I'm on call at San
Francisco General Hospital when I
receive a barrage of vague text messages
expressing condolences confused I call
my father who calmly in tones there's
been a shooting in DEA's neighborhood in
Chapel Hill it's on lockdown that's all
we know I hang up and quickly Google
shooting in Chapel Hill one hit comes up
quote three people were shot in the back
of the head and confirmed dead on the
scene something in me just knows I fling
out of my chair and faint onto the
gritty hospital floor wailing I take the
first red-eye out of San Francisco numb
and disoriented I walk into my childhood
home and faint into my parents arms
sobbing I then run up to DEA's room as I
did so many times before just looking
for him only to find a void that will
never be filled
investigation autopsy reports eventually
reveal the sequence of events dia had
just gotten off the bus from class
Roseanne was visiting for dinner already
at home with you soon as they began to
eat they
heard a knock on the door when Jia
opened it their neighbor proceeded to
fire multiple shots at him
according to 9-1-1 calls the girls were
heard screaming the man turned towards
the kitchen and fired a single shot into
users hip immobilizing her even
approached her from behind pressed the
barrel of his gun against her head and
with a single bullet lacerated her
midbrain he then turned towards her Zhen
who was screaming for her life an
execution-style with a single bullet to
the back of the head killed her on his
way out he shot da one last time a
bullet in the mouth for a total of eight
bullets two lodged in the head two in
his chest and the rest in his
extremities da you said and rosanne were
executed in a place that was meant to be
safe their home for months this man had
been harassing them knocking on their
door brandishing his gun on a couple of
occasions his facebook was cluttered
with anti-religion posts Yousef felt
particularly threatened by him as she
was moving in he told you sit on her mom
that he didn't like the way they looked
in response you said his mom told her to
be kind to her neighbor but as he got to
know them he'd see them who for who they
were I guess we've all become so numb to
the hatred that we couldn't have ever
imagined it turning into fatal violence
the man who murdered my brother turned
himself into the police shortly after
the murders saying he killed three kids
execution-style over a parking dispute
the police issued a premature public
statement that morning echoing his
claims without bothering to question it
or further investigate it turns out
there was no parking dispute there was
no argument no violation but the damage
was already done in a 24-hour media
cycle the words parking dispute had
already become the go-to soundbite I
said on
Brothers bed and remember his words the
words he gave me so freely and with so
much love I am Who I am because of you
that's what it takes for me to climb
through my crippling grief and speak out
I cannot let my family's death to be
diminished to a segment that has barely
discussed on local news they were
murdered by their neighbor because of
their faith because of a piece of cloth
they chose to dawn on their heads
because they were visibly Muslim some of
the rage I felt at the time was that if
roles were reversed and an Arab Muslim
or Muslim appearing person had killed
three white American college students
execution-style in their home what would
we have called it a terrorist attack
when white men commit acts of violence
in the u.s. their lone wolves mentally
ill or driven by a parking dispute I
know that I have to give my family voice
and I do the only thing I know how I
send a Facebook message to everyone I
know in media a couple of hours later in
the midst of a chaotic house overflowing
with friends and family our neighbor
Neal comes over sits down next to my
parents and asks what can I do Neal had
over two decades of experience in
journalism but he makes it clear that
he's not there in his capacity as a
journalist but as a neighbor who wants
to help I asked him what he thinks we
should do given the bombardment of local
media interview requests he offers to
set up a press conference at a local
community center even now I don't have
the words to thank him just tell me when
and I'll have the all the news channels
presence he said he did for us we could
not do for ourselves in a moment of
devastation I delivered the press
statement still wearing scrubs from the
previous night and in under 24 hours
from the murders I'm on CN n being
interviewed by Anderson Cooper the
following day major newspapers including
the New York Times Chicago Tribune
published stories about da ussen and
Rosen allowing us to wreak
the narrative and call attention to the
mainstreaming of anti-muslim hatred
these days it feels like Islamophobia is
a socially acceptable form of bigotry we
just have to put up with it and smile
the nasty stares the palpable fear when
boarding a plane the random pat downs at
airports that happen 99% of the time it
doesn't stop there we have politicians
reaping political and financial gains
off our backs here in the US we have
presidential candidates like Donald
Trump casually calling to register
American Muslims and ban Muslim
immigrants and refugees from entering
this country it is no coincidence that
hate crimes rise in parallel with
election cycles just a couple months ago
khadija bada a lebanese american
christian was murdered in oklahoma by
his neighbor a man who called him a
filthy arab this man was previously
jailed for a mere eight months after
attempting to run over HUD its mother
with his car chances are you haven't
heard cladded story because it didn't
make it to national news the least we
can do is call it what it is a hate
crime the least we can do is talk about
it because violence and hatred doesn't
just happen in a vacuum
not long after coming back to work i'm
the senior on rounds in the hospital
when one of my patients looks over at my
colleague gestures around her face and
says san bernardino referencing a recent
terrorist attack Here I am having just
lost three family members to sama phobia
having been a vocal advocate within my
program on how to deal with such
microaggressions
and yet silence it was disheartened
humiliated days later rounding on the
same patient she looks at me and says
your people are killing people in Los
Angeles
I look around expectantly again silence
I realized I yet again I have to speak
for myself I sit on her bed and gently
ask her have I ever done anything but
treat you with respect and kindness have
I done anything but give you
compassionate care she looks down and
realizes what she said was wrong and in
front of the entire team she apologizes
and says I should know better
I'm mexican-american I received this
kind of treatment all the time many of
us experienced microaggressions on a
daily basis odds are you may have
experienced it whether for your race
gender sexuality or religious beliefs
we've all been in situations where we've
witnessed something wrong and didn't
speak up maybe you weren't equipped with
the tools to respond in the moment maybe
we weren't even aware of our own
implicit biases we can all agree that
bigotry is unacceptable when we see it
or silence because it makes us
uncomfortable but stepping right into
that discomfort means you are also
stepping into the allies zone there may
be over three million Muslims in America
that's still just 1% of the total
population Martin Luther King once said
in the end we will remember not the
words of our enemies but the silence of
our friends so what made my neighbor
Neal's Ally ship so profound a couple of
things he was there as a neighbor who
cared but he was also bringing in his
professional expertise and resources
when the moment called for it others
have done the same Marisha hawkins drew
on her platform is the first tenured
african-american professor at Wheaton
College to wear a hijab in solidarity
with Muslim women who face
discrimination every day as a result she
lost her job within a month she joined
the faculty at the University of
Virginia where she now works on
pluralism race faith and culture reddit
co-founder Alexis Ohanian demonstrated
that not all acts of a lie ship needs to
be so serious he stepped up to support a
15 year old
Muslim girls mission to introduce a
hijab emoji it's a simple gesture but it
has a significant subconscious impact on
normalizing and humanizing Muslims
including the community as a part of an
us instead of another editor-in-chief of
women's running magazine just put the
first huge Abie to ever be on the cover
of a u.s. fitness magazine these are all
very different examples of people who
drew upon their platforms and resources
in academia tech and media to actively
express their ally ship what resources
and expertise do you bring to the table
are you willing to step into your
discomfort and speak up what you witness
hateful bigotry will you be kneel many
neighbors appeared in this story and you
in your respective communities all have
a Muslim neighbor colleague or friend
your child plays with at school reach
out to them let them know you stand with
them in solidarity it may feel really
small but I promise you it makes a
difference nothing will ever bring back
the user understand but when we raise
our collective voices that is when we
stop the hate thank you
[Applause]
[Music]